I got saved in 1975, back in Cincinnati, Ohio.
That's where I was raised.
My folks were from Kentucky,
but we moved to Cincinnati for work.
And I got saved in a church called Landmark Baptist Temple.
My pastor was a man named John Rawlings.
And on Sunday morning, that church would run about 6,000.
Sunday night, you'd go back and probably 3,500
on a Sunday night, it was way down, kidding.
But they had a choir of about 200,
and it was, I'm telling you, it was just outstanding.
And I know that's a different era,
and I'm not suggesting now, but back in 1975,
things were done a little bit differently.
And Dr. Rawlings had a favorite song,
and his favorite song was,
"'Til the Storm Passes By."
And his son, Herb, would sing,
and the choir would sing it behind him.
And at Landmark, if Doc wanted to hear it again,
he would just say, sing it again.
And it didn't matter if the service
went an extra hour or what,
we were gonna sing it again.
One time, there was where we heard,
"'Til the Storm Passes By,"
I think it was five, maybe six times.
I knew all the words by the time it was over.
But as I was sitting there this evening, Brianna,
I'd have just said, again, on that offertory.
That was just outstanding and beautiful.
All the music, all week.
I hope, I'm talking as an old man
and as a friend to you now,
I hope you appreciate what you have.
Not everybody has a church like this.
And not everybody has music and just people
that are willing to give of themselves
and give of their time.
It is a blessing.
And I say that so that you're very careful
to do two things.
Number one, protect it.
Number two, participate in it and be part of it,
because it is a wonderful, wonderful group of people.
Brother and Mrs. Mann, thank you for being so gracious.
I have not told them yet,
but I'm moving into their basement.
Man, I have been so comfortable over there
and I've gotten work done and just enjoyed it thoroughly.
I am an apple connoisseur.
I eat at least one apple every day.
You don't need to know that,
but I thought you'd like to know that.
And I have a very favorite apple.
My favorite apple is ambrosia apples.
And last year I mentioned that to Pastor Mann.
And when I got here on Saturday,
you know what was in the prophet's chamber?
Ambrosia apples.
That's just kindness, you know?
That's just thoughtfulness to remember that
and do that.
And I know where he gets it.
He gets it from Mrs. Mann.
It does not come naturally to pastor.
It's handed down by Mrs. Mann,
but I appreciate the spirit of the Mann household.
It is a blessing to be there.
And I really am grateful.
And I know I speak for these missionaries.
You've been so kind to us.
And you know, that's meaningful.
We're just people that are gonna be here for a few days,
but you mark our lives.
Sometimes we think it's all about us
coming in and preaching to people,
but honestly, we get our lives marked.
We get our lives impacted.
And this has just been such a positive
several days to be part of here.
So thank you for all that you do and who you are
and what God is doing in this place.
You're really a blessing to people that come through.
Thanks.
You encouraged us.
All right, that's the nice stuff.
Let's get to preaching.
Amen.
I wanna do something a little unusual tonight.
I want you to start in Matthew chapter nine,
starting in Matthew chapter nine.
We're just gonna look at that for a moment
and we're gonna do another sword drill.
And where I'm going to get eventually
is I wanna preach to you on this thought.
God's promises to those who will go.
I can't call anybody to the field.
Boy, I think we need to be really careful about that.
But what we can try to do is just demonstrate the need
and then help folks to understand
that when God does call us and when we do surrender to go,
God makes promises to those people
who will surrender their lives, surrender their resources
and simply obey him and what he's called them to do.
I want you to notice in chapter nine, Matthew chapter nine,
and let's just look at verse 35.
And Jesus went about all the cities and villages
teaching in their synagogues
and preaching the gospel of the kingdom
and healing every sickness
and every disease among the people.
But when he saw the multitudes,
he was moved with compassion on them
because they fainted and were scattered abroad
as sheep having no shepherd.
I don't have time to preach this passage,
but when I look at our culture,
can I be honest with you?
Sometimes I'm angry with them,
but that's not the right response.
Our response ought to be brokenhearted for them.
And when Jesus looked on these people in these great crowds,
man, they were sinners.
They were pagans.
They were idol worshipers.
They were legalists.
They were just as sinful as our generation,
maybe in just some other ways.
And yet he wasn't angry with them.
He was moved for them.
Moved with compassion
because he saw how desperate the need is.
And I want you to notice then in verse 37.
And then saith he unto his disciples,
the harvest truly is plenteous,
but the laborers are few.
Sometimes when we look at our culture,
I'm just speaking for myself,
sometimes we can have the attitude,
man, those are throwaway people.
Look at how their life is.
Look at how they're conducting themselves.
Look at how they look.
Look at their lifestyle.
Look at what they believe.
Man, why can't everybody be like me?
Well, a good dose of the grace of God,
and maybe they can be like me.
And Jesus never looked at that sinful culture
and said, those are throwaway people.
Jesus said, will you come help me reach them?
Man, they can be reached if we have laborers.
So what are we supposed to do church?
Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest
that he will send forth the laborers into his harvest.
I wonder, and I'm not being critical tonight.
I'm not trying to be adversarial.
I wonder if we truly examined our prayer ledger,
if we truly took a look at our prayer time,
how many of us would find a line in our intercession
asking God to call people to the field?
I wonder how many pastors go row by row in their mind
and pray, would you call that family out of my church?
Yeah, they're good tithers.
Yeah, they're great servants.
Would you please call them out?
I am convinced that a missions conference
is the one meeting each year
where we try to get rid of our best people.
I wonder how many parents,
as they put those children in that bed each night.
Man, they love their kids.
They're protective of their kids.
And I wonder, and I'm not trying to be super spiritual,
but I wonder how many, as they put those kids in that bed,
say, God, would you please call my son
to be a laborer in your harvest field?
I'm just saying, why don't we have more laborers?
I'm not sure anybody's praying for them.
For 23 years, I've been on the board at BIMI
these past five years, I've been the treasurer of BIMI.
Can I tell you something?
My knees were shaking through COVID
because I thought, whoa, what's gonna happen?
Man, if people don't have jobs
and if churches can't convene,
what's gonna happen to the giving?
We've got people to take care of.
You know what happened?
It went up.
Giving went up.
We had our biggest years, 2020, 21, 22, 23.
We blew it off the charts in 22,
and are doing so in 23.
You say, that's awesome, preacher.
It is awesome, and I'm glad for it.
I praise God for it.
But can I tell you the rest of the story?
We're not seeing many people called to the field.
Oh, we got money.
We got programs.
We just lack people.
Where are the people?
Where are the laborers?
And listen, I think there's probably a thousand reasons that we can consider, a dozen things
that we could be very careful to study.
But I would suggest to you that most failures in our lives and in our churches are markedly
prayer failures.
And God says, pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, man, send forth laborers into
the harvest.
Now I'm not having a prayer meeting tonight, that's not my position.
And I'm not just scolding myself or you, I'm including myself in all the things I just
said.
I can't call anybody to the field, I could wish that I could and I'm willing to, no,
not really.
But I want you to understand this, this is what I can do.
I can tell you that if God is dealing with you, that's a big deal.
And sometimes we're fearful, we live our Christian lives so timidly.
We live our Christian lives in our control.
In other words, up to that spot where, boy, if I take another step I've got to really
trust God.
And I get it, I've been there and I don't want to present myself as some great paragon
of faith, I struggle every day to trust the Lord with my life.
Not my soul, that was easy, but with my life.
But I'm telling you, God makes some promises to his people.
And I want you to see that if God is speaking to your heart, dealing with your heart, speaking
to you about your life, that surrendering and answering a call is not something to be
fearful of.
It is something to step into the promises of God.
And I want to tonight, and I'll be brief, has a preacher ever said that to you?
I'll be as brief as I can.
I want to expose five promises that God makes to those who will answer the call and go.
Let's go just a little further in Matthew chapter 28.
You've probably never read these verses at a missions conference before.
Matthew chapter 28.
And I want you to notice in verse 19, we'll read these famous verses, we know them.
Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son
and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you.
And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world.
Now listen, in the Great Commission, I can understand why God says you're supposed to
go, and then He's very clear to make disciples, and then He's very clear to baptize those
disciples, and then He's very clear, teach them to observe all things whatsoever I've
commanded you.
Man, that is the commission.
That is our job.
But I'll be honest with you, it just, you know, kind of gets my attention when He adds
this thought, I am with you always.
I am with you always.
Why did God add that to the commission?
Sometimes when we read the Great Commission, we are very careful to read those verses that
we know are attendant with it, but sometimes we're not as careful about the context around
it.
And I would invite your attention back to verse 16.
Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed
them.
And when they saw Him, they worshipped Him, but some doubted.
And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in
earth.
The disciples understand that there is an approaching and a growing finality to Jesus
dealing with them.
He's been talking about going away.
Hey, He did go away on the cross and into the tomb, but thank God He came out of that
tomb.
He rose again.
And listen, when it says that these disciples had been commanded by the Lord, appointed
to meet on this mountain, on this day, at this time, they have a sense that this is
a big deal.
This is kind of a final moment.
And so, as they're waiting for Jesus, and Jesus approaches them and is going to share
with them this great commission, He knows that in their heart, some of them are doubtful.
What's that mean?
Does it mean they doubt whether this is really the one who rose again?
No.
They've put their fingers in His hands.
They've seen the spear scar on His side.
It says they worshipped Him.
They weren't wondering, is this God?
They weren't wondering, is this the resurrected Lord?
Study that word doubted out, and here's what is happening in their heart.
They're wavering.
What are they wavering for?
Well, because everything in ministry that they have done for three and a half years
has been in the presence of the Lord Jesus.
Hey, if they moved, if He moved, they moved.
They were with Him when He did great miracles.
They've seen Him heal.
They've seen Him raise dead people.
They've seen Him turn water to wine.
They have seen miracle after miracle.
And as long as He is standing by their side, they're good.
But now He's going.
And can we really do this?
Can we really do what He's asking us to do?
If He's not here?
I don't know about you.
I sometimes try to appear to be confident, but when God has told me to do something and
I say, yeah, I'm going to do it, and I turn the light out, I say, why did I say that?
And God makes them a promise.
I will be present with you.
I said to you the other evening that one of the greatest forces that discourages and brings
young missionaries home from the field is a sense of loneliness and isolation.
I'm here by myself.
Does anybody know I'm here?
Does anybody care about what we're doing?
Does anybody care about our struggle?
Does anybody know we have a crisis?
Does anybody know we have a need?
Does anybody even know we're here?
I haven't experienced it to that level.
But when we started Heritage Baptist Church in 1981, oh man, it was great.
Because for the first three weeks, group after group came from Pittsburgh from our church
there and helped us.
We knocked doors together.
We were leading people to Christ at the door.
We were announcing time for the prayer meeting and the first service.
It was great.
But you know what happened?
They couldn't keep coming from Pittsburgh.
And so more and more my mother and father would come from Kentucky and they would stay
and watch the kids and Nancy and I would go out soul winning, but mother and dad couldn't
keep coming.
I'll never forget those days when mother and dad couldn't keep coming and we had three
children and Nancy had to stay home and care for the children.
And I don't know if you know this, but when you are starting a church and you have no
congregation, you ain't got a lot to do.
And so you go soul winning.
You say, you said ain't preacher.
It's good preaching, isn't it?
You go soul winning and you go soul winning by yourself.
Going soul winning by yourself on an August afternoon when it's 184 degrees and the humidity
is 362 is not an easy thing.
I can remember going up to a door and just being so rudely treated by a lady.
I mean, it was just so ugly the way she talked and get off my property and don't bring that
stuff around here.
And boy, when I'm walking back down to the main sidewalk, I'm thinking to myself, nobody
knows the trouble.
I mean, I'm feeling sorry for myself.
And I am thinking to myself, what am I doing out here?
These people are not, what am I doing out here?
I'm all by myself.
You ever have one of those moments where the Holy Spirit just gets you and he just stops
you.
And I'm telling you, I don't know if you've ever been to Dale City, but in the middle
of Dale City on a sidewalk on a, I think it was a Friday afternoon in August.
I'm sweating like a pig and I had an epiphany and the Holy Spirit stopped me and he said,
you have not gone to one door by yourself.
You have not written one sermon by yourself.
You have not talked to one or.
counsel to anybody by yourself. You are not here by
yourself. I am present with you every step of this way.
And I say this to you, young man, young woman, young
couple, I say to you that God does not abandon you when
you answer His call. God goes with you. And the promise
that He makes to you is whether it is a sidewalk in
Glendale City or a dirt path or a jungle in Africa or
Burma, I know exactly where that jungle is, God says. I
know the way in, I know the way out, I know what I've
got you there for, I know how to care for you. I will
be with you. Here's number two. Turn with me quickly to
Mark chapter 16. Not only does He promise us His
presence, He promises us protection. Look at verse 15.
And He said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and
preach the gospel to every creature. That's the part of
the commission we know. He that believeth and is
baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall
be damned. And these signs shall follow them that
believe. In my name shall they cast out devils. They
shall speak with new tongues. They shall take up
serpents. And if they drink any deadly thing, it shall
not hurt them. They shall lay hands on the sick, and they
shall recover. Now can I tell you something? Right now
your pastor is nervous. I want to assure you my
theology is correct, my dispensationalism is correct.
I know what these verses say. There was a time in the New
Testament when God used signed gifts through the
apostles. They had signed gifts because the gift would
confirm that they were speaking for God and that the
message they were delivering was from the Lord. We don't
need signed gifts anymore because we have the completed
Word of God. We have it in its totality. Here's the Word.
But what I am suggesting to you is that we serve a
supernatural God. We serve a God who is not bound by
natural law. He is the author of natural law. And by the
way, there is no mother nature, but there is a Creator
God. And God is able to suspend natural law, transcend
natural law. God is able to protect His people wherever
they are on God's created earth. Now I'm not saying
difficult and bad things never happen to good people. What
I am saying is that accidents don't happen to good people
that are serving the Lord. And if God does allow a
difficult thing into your life, it is accompanied with
His great grace. I am saying to you that as I view things
today, I see more and more people fearful of stepping
into a call to a mission field. I even observe parents
who are fearful of allowing their children to even
entertain a call to a mission field. And I would suggest to
you tonight that your child is safer in a mud hut in the
midst of Africa eating monkey meat than they are in a
comfortable suburb out of the will of God close to you so
you can have your grandchildren there. We have got to think
right on this thing. Listen, the Apostle Paul was a man
surrendered to the Lord. And I know he was an apostle, and I
know you can discount it. But I'm just telling you that he
has been in the water more than any apostle I know. He
was shipwrecked. And I don't think he went to the YMCA and
took swim lessons as a teen, alright? I think God protected
him. I think God brought a piece of wood by at the right
time so that he could hang on to that wood and get to the
shore. I think when he got to the shore he was cold, and God
said, start a fire. And he went and got wood. And when he
brought his hand out from that wood there was a serpent
attached to his hand. That would have done it for me, I
guarantee you. He shook it off. And God was able to stop
the venom. I don't know whether God stopped the snake
from envenomating him, or whether God stopped the venom.
I don't know what God did. God can do what He wants to do
because God is able. One of my favorite missionary
biographies is a book called, Evidence Not Seen, Darlene
Diebler-Rose. And Darlene Diebler-Rose and her first
husband were on Papua New Guinea at the outbreak of World
War II. And they were taken captive by the Japanese. Mr.
Rose, or Mr. Diebler, was put into a separate camp from
Darlene, and he passed away in that labor camp. Darlene
survived the war. One of the things that she had secreted
away was just a little New Testament. It was the most
precious possession she had. And the Japanese were cruel,
hard, hard masters. And they wanted to protect their
workers. And so as the war went on, as the American
bombers came over, they weren't always able to discern,
is this an American barracks, or is this a Japanese barracks?
And so often the labor camp would be bombed
indiscriminately. And the Japanese, not wanting to lose
their laborers, insisted that you leave the barracks and go
out into the ditch where there was some protection from the
bombs. And one day the air raid siren sounded, and Ms. Rose
ran from the barracks and into the ditch, the protected area,
and it dawned on her she forgot her New Testament. And it
just killed her to think that New Testament might get blown
up, burned up. She got up out of the ditch and ran back in
knowing she might get beat for it. But she went back into
the barracks and got that New Testament. As she came out of
the door running back to where she was supposed to be, it was
nothing but a smoking crater where a bomb had hit. You say,
preacher, what a coincidence. What a God. We don't have to
live fearfully. We can trust God. He goes out of His way to
say to us, I am able to protect you if I call you to the field.
Turn with me quickly, Luke chapter 24. Look at verse 46.
And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, He said, Father,
I'm not there in the right place am I? 24. All right, now
46 will make better sense. He said, and thus it is written,
and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the
dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of
sins should be preached in His name among all nations,
beginning at Jerusalem. And ye are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you. But
tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued
with power from on high. That's Luke's version of the Great
Commission. And what Luke says is, listen, I want you to
preach the gospel and I'm going to endue you with power. Right
away when we hear that word power, our thought kind of goes
to, you know, great strength, great muscular strength. But
that's not what God is saying here. Understand this, that
when we get saved, God gifts us. God gives us a gift that
enables us to serve Him. And you may be sitting in this room
tonight with the gift that is necessary for God to use you on
the field. All the time I run into people who say things
like, well I could never do that. Did you know that that's
qualifying you to go to the mission field? God's not really
all that interested in the ones who are convinced that they're
the gift of the world and they can do it all. As a matter of
fact, God has to kind of break them to make them understand
that without Him they can do nothing. God has already put a
gift in you. How does it work out here? Hey listen, they are
to tarry in the upper room and they are to tarry there until
God in this sign gift way endues them with that giftedness.
Remember what the giftedness was? It was the ability to
speak or to be heard in the language of literally hundreds
of thousands of people, maybe millions in the city of
Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost. Now you do remember
that Peter had gone to linguistic school. And you do
remember that John, he was a professor of languages at
Galilee University. No he wasn't. Peter was better at
customizing than John.
than that he was at preaching, okay?
You say, preacher, what is your point?
My point is this, that those men
did not experience the blessing of Pentecost
because they had been dutifully prepared in their education.
They enjoyed the blessing of Pentecost
because God made them able, because God gifted them.
And what God is saying is this,
I promise you, if I call you to the field,
I will have gifted you what is necessary
to do what I've called you to do.
Years ago when I was in Bible college,
I may have told this illustration the last time I was here,
but I'm gonna tell it again,
because it's good and old men are allowed to repeat.
I went to homiletics class.
It was my second or third semester.
And in homiletics class, at the end,
you learn how to put together sermons
and outlines, and at the end of that semester,
each person, there were about 20 of us in the room,
we were given seven minutes to preach a sermon,
to put together a sermon and preach the sermon.
I put together a fantastic sermon.
My sermon, I can still show it to you,
the 13 qualities of the high priest
found in Jesus in the book of Hebrews in seven minutes.
It was horrible.
I didn't understand what I was talking about.
No one understood what I was talking about.
And it's one of those times where you just take your seat
and you say, I have no business here.
I can't do this.
My homiletics professor, a day later, found me in the hall.
Mr. Ron Walker put his arm around my shoulder
and he said, he was being humorous,
but he said to me, Mike, there's a lot of ways
to serve the Lord besides preaching.
That'll encourage your heart.
I remember that afternoon on my way home,
really thinking about just going home and packing up.
There's no way I can do this.
And another Holy Spirit moment where God says,
hey, this is where I needed you to be.
Where you understand it's not about
what you bring to the table.
You just be a surrendered vessel.
And let me use you in the way that I have designed
and purposed you.
And God will give us what we need.
I sat next to a Texan named Johnny Fall.
He got his first English test back
and I don't even think he scored an F.
I got mine back and I did well.
He looked over at me and he said,
you gotta help me through English.
He owned a construction business and I said,
man, I need a job.
You gotta help me get a job.
So the deal was, I'll give you a job.
I know nothing about construction
and he knew nothing about English,
so we were a perfect pair.
He got through by the grace of the professor,
I'm sure with a D.
Oh, by the way, he was called to be a missionary to Mexico
and he learned fluently the Spanish language
and could preach in it,
though he couldn't pass English class.
We'll say, well, that's just unusual.
No, that's God.
And stop doubting what God can do.
Stop doubting how God can use you
because God has promised to endue you with power,
a giftedness from on high that will meet the need
that he calls you to fill.
Turn with me very quickly, would you?
John chapter 20.
Look at verse 19.
Then the same day at evening,
being the first day of the week,
when the doors were shut,
where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews,
came Jesus and stood in the midst and saith unto them,
peace be unto you.
And when he had so said,
he showed unto them his hands and his side.
Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord.
Then said Jesus to them again,
peace be unto you as my father has sent me,
even so send I you.
There's the commission.
And the promise that goes with the commission is this,
you'll have peace.
I said the other night,
and I'll say it again briefly.
I sit two times a year
and I watch these young couples,
20s, 24, 25, mid 20s.
And they've got two or three little kids
and maybe she's expecting another one.
And they're going to places that I don't even know
that I would feel safe to travel to, Florida.
They're going to places like Mozambique.
They're going to third world countries
where I'm just telling you they're dangerous places.
They don't want the gospel there.
They don't want us there.
They only view you or those young missionaries
as maybe a way to get a meal ticket,
something to steal from.
I don't know.
I'm not blaming them.
I'm just saying that's the condition of our world.
And I look at those young couples
and those young children
and the grandpa takes over in me.
And I say, man, I don't want you to go.
But you know what the Lord says?
There's something called a peace that passes understanding.
And sometimes we lead our lives so timidly
that we never get to the place where we say,
I don't understand how I'm doing this.
But God has done something.
God has worked on my behalf.
I think of some young mother in Uganda
or in the backwoods of Pakistan
or Afghanistan or some other place.
And she wakes up at night
and that child has 102 fever.
And I would say to them, we'll call urgent care.
There is no urgent care.
Well, then take them to the hospital.
There is no hospital.
Well, then get your husband.
Oh, he's out in the bush.
I'm here by myself.
What does she do?
She's got to panic.
Oh, she's going to panic.
No, God promised peace.
And in a way above our understanding,
beyond our thoughts and our capability,
that woman will have a testimony.
God spoke to me and did something in my heart.
I had a peace that it passed understanding.
Amen.
Where are the hearts that want to live that?
Yeah, that's right.
Where are the people?
Where are the believers that will step up and say,
I'm willing to experience that?
Because God promises that.
A peace that passes understanding
in the very midst of the worst storm
that we can possibly think.
Last, would you look with me at Acts 1 and verse 8?
Acts 1 and verse 8,
but ye shall receive power.
Oh, there's that word again.
We already talked about power.
Oh, wait a minute.
Ye shall receive power
after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you
and ye shall be my witnesses unto me,
both at the same time in Jerusalem.
Hey, if you're an apostle,
what a great thing to hear.
I'm gonna witness about Jesus in Jerusalem
where they just crucified him.
Where they hated him.
Where they tried day after day to ensnare him.
They couldn't stand him.
And you want me to go in Jerusalem
and think if they did that to Jesus,
what are they gonna do to me?
You know what that word power means?
It has the thought of this.
You will have influence.
How does a Jew who has been with Jesus
and he's a disciple, an apostle,
how does he go into Jerusalem
and preach the gospel to the Pharisees?
Because the Holy Spirit empowers his word.
How does he go into Judea?
How about this?
How does he go up to Samaria?
The Samaritans hate him and they hate them.
And I'm supposed to walk into Samaria
and preach the gospel
and they're gonna listen to me, a converted Jew?
Yeah, because it's not about you.
It's about the Spirit of God
empowering the message of the gospel.
You say, well.
I'm just kind of a backward guy.
I'm just kind of a quiet girl.
I don't have a forceful personality.
No, you've got the Holy Spirit for that.
And the Spirit of God says, listen,
there's power coming from me, not from you.
As a matter of fact, you need to get out of the way.
So that the power of the Spirit of God can work through us.
You say, preacher, what's your point?
And I'm done.
My point is that everybody in this room is qualified to go.
Because it isn't about us.
Oh, I just don't have any great ability.
Well, you might have the greatest ability
of all, availability.
And you're willing to come and say, Lord, here's my life.
Amen.
Will you take my life and do what only you can do
through me?
And God, I'm willing to go.
I don't want to go by myself.
And God says, no, no, no, I'm going with you.
I promised you my presence.
And Lord, I'm a daddy and I've got these little children
and I've got this precious wife.
And Lord, I'm a little bit afraid.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm supernatural.
I can take care of you.
Oh, but you just don't understand.
I didn't get good grades.
I can't read very good.
Oh, you don't understand.
I wasn't raised in a Christian home.
I don't know all the Bible stories.
Hey, hey, you sound like Moses.
Stop making excuses and trust the God who made you
the way he made you because he wants to use you.
He can make you able.
You say, oh, preacher,
I just can't anticipate all the things
that could be difficult.
No, you can't, nor will you ever, not even here.
But God does.
God knows.
And God already has a plan
and God will whisper in your ear, peace, peace.
I got this.
You say, oh, preacher, I'm not like you.
I'm not a big athletic guy.
You hurt me when you laugh.
I'm not a force like you are.
Come on.
God will give you influence.
Not by power or might, but by his spirit.
God is just looking for someone.
I'll go.
I'm yours.
I will trust you with my life
and I will take you up on all those promises you made.
Would you pray with me?
Father, help us to see truth tonight.
We're so grateful for your word.
Lord, I'm not trying to, from the power of persuasion,
persuade somebody to go.
Here's my invitation tonight.
We curse the darkness.
We bemoan our culture.
We just think the world is in terrible shape.
And I would say maybe two or three or four or five
have prayed this week for laborers.
It's not that we're bad people.
It's not that we don't want laborers.
We just forget.
We just think there must be some other way.
There must be a program to produce laborers.
There must be some paycheck we could...
No.
Laborers come through prayer.
Instead of building kingdoms and living fearfully,
let's pray that the people of our church
are called to the field.
Let's pray that our children are called to the field.
Let's be so bold as to get to an altar and say,
Lord, I don't know if you are calling me,
but if you do, I'll go.
That's praying for laborers.
There ought to be a commitment from this church.
Every member of this church, whether they're 90 or nine,
there ought to be a commitment to begin for God
to pray and ask God.
Call people from our church.
Call people from our family.
Make them understand your call.
God, bring laborers from us.
And the second part of the invitation is this.
Why don't you offer yourself?
I didn't say you have to make a decision
to go to the field, but do you think God might be pleased
if you just simply said, here am I, Lord, send me?
It's a mighty pretty song.
We sing it every missions conference.
I wonder how many times it's honestly prayed.
Here am I, Lord, if you want me, I'm offering myself.
Now, God, help us to be serious minded.
Our world desperately needs the gospel.
They're hurting.
Jesus said, man, we need laborers.
How do you get them, Jesus?
Pray, pray, pray.
God, help us tonight.
I ask it in Jesus' name, amen.